In this lecture we'll learn how to use a function called get_template_part() in order to organize our theme files and
also make it more child theme friendly.
Remember this hierarchy chart.
Currently we only have the index.php template file.
Right? Imagine now we need to create an archive page that will be the default template for the author or the
category or the data and tags and so on pages. So we can create each one of these separately.
But let's now create a general
archive.php page to display all of these. So
in my folder now I'm gonna create a new file called archive.php
Let's save.
And now if we go to some category, actually have the categories here.
So let's go to this one.
And now we have a blank page because we have a blank archive.php.
So what we need to put in archive.php is mainly the same as index.php.
We need to look through the posts and display the pagination and a sidebar and pretty much the same, right?
So let's copy this and paste it  in archive.
Now we have the only post with this category, right?
So maybe the only difference we want to add here is maybe add the category title before the posts. So
let's go to the archive and let's add another row here. And it will span 12. So let's copy this and close it.
And then this should be the pages header too, we can use HTML5 HEADER tag here and put the title of the
category. So to do that we use the WordPress function called the_archive_title() and it takes before and after
so we can wrap it in H1 tag.
We can also add the
description.
Any category or tag can have a description so we can add a title and wrap it in a P tag
So now we have the category or the archive title in the page here.
So now we have 2 pages.
The index. Let's open this in a new tab. We've the category page and the index page. And they're pretty much the
same except that we have the title here.
So we're kind of repeating some code here and it's not a best practice. So what we can do is we can go to
index and then copy the loop
or cut it. And then create a new file.
Let's call it loop.php.
And then paste.
And now we've created first template part.
So after all this chunk of code now in the index.php, we might say we can use PHP require or include functions
but you should never do that.
WordPress have a built in function called get_template_part()
where you can load template parts. So it takes two arguments, a slug and a name so let's ignore this name
for now.
We'll see this in a moment and the slug is just the part of the file.
So "loop".
And let's see in our index.php. And it's the same. So what you can do is you can actually use this line
here in the archive page and remove the loop from here.
So that's a huge improvement, right?
So that's the category page now and it's still the same.
So using get_template_part() allow us to reuse our code here.
So we didn't have to write the loop twice.
And it's also child theme friendly.
So I mentioned when using the get_template_part() that you shouldn't use PHP's require or include.
And the reason is that get_template_part() will look first for a file called loop.php in your child theme.
And if it's not found it will fall back to the parent theme.
So imagine some other developer wants to modify something in your loop.
Now he'll have to only create a file called loop.php in his child theme instead of creating the whole
archive page and copying this whole thing just to modify something in the loop.
So let's try this. Let's add the, add our child theme in the
child theme folder into our workspace.
And make sure you have your child theme active.
And now let's create a new file and let's call it loop.php.
And let's type some text.
And let's see what happens.
So as you can see get_template_part() with search for the loop.php in your child theme first. And if that's not
found it will fall back to your original parent's theme loop.php. So that will make a child theme customization
a lot easier for developers.
So let's now talk about the
second argument of get_template_
part(). So I've mentioned that the first argument is the path to your template.
In some cases you might need to consider this template as a generic template that can have a more specialized
template.
So for example let's imagine you want to allow child theme developers to create different loop files for the
archive and the index.
Right now the child theme developer will only have the choice to override the loop file and this will get
loaded for both the archive and the index.
So to give more flexibility you can add a second argument here. And let's call this "archive".
And the second argument here. And let's call it "index".
What this will do is that it will give you the option to create a file called "loop-index" and that's
what will get loaded here.
And if loop-index is not found it will fall back to loop. And same for here.
If loop-archive is not found, it will fall back to loop. And in the case of a child theme get_template_
part() with search for loop_archive in the child theme.
And if not found it will search for loop.php in the child theme.
And if that's not found it will search for loop-archive in the parent theme. And then just loop in the parent theme.
So let's try this.
Let's in the child theme create a new file called loop-archive.php. And let's call
Let's write
"child loop archive". And let's create another one.
And lett's call it loop-index.php. And let's call, let's write
"child loop index". And let's go now
and in the index we have "child loop index" and in the archive we have "child loop archive".
So now it's given to child theme developers the option to create a specific template for different template files like
index and archive.
Most of us use the generic loop that would be used for all the files.
So I think this is a great concept and it can be very beneficial in your theme development.
So let's see where we can use this concept in a couple of places in our theme so far.
So in the, now in the loop.php in our parent theme we can actually create a template
part here.
So in the post part starting from the ARTICLE tag we can cut this and make this into a template.
But now let's make it in a instead of just putting it in the root folder
let's create a new folder. And call it "template-parts"
And we probably have different templates for different places in the theme. So let's create another folder
inside this one and let's call it  "post". And let's create a new file for our template and call it "content".
So this will be the post content. So let's pasteour content here.
And then let's load it using get_template_part(). So let's open a PHP tag and then get_template_part().
And now we have our file "template-parts/post/content".
So let's save and check if we've done anything wrong.
And let's remove the child theme
templates here.
And everything's still fine.
So what we've done now will be very beneficial when we come to the Post Formats section.
If you're familiar with Post Formats it's a feature in WordPress that your theme can support that will allow
users to choose different formats for the post and depending on that format you'll have to style
your posts differently.
So when we come to this we'll make use of the second argument here to make some special templates for
the content template.
So we'll come to this later.
But what we can do now is we can create a template file for this part.
So let's cut this.
And in our template-parts folder, in the post let's create a new one called "content-none.php".
And this is a specific template for the post content when there are no posts.
So let's paste now and save and then load it using, can copy this line, and then just add a second argument
"none".
So let's try this Let's type
maybe a category that doesn't exist. And we'll have no posts.
So doing this will allow child theme developers to maybe override this template content-none, instead of just
overriding the whole loop just to modify this part.
So just to clarify this.
Let's quickly create a new folder in our child theme and call it "template-parts". And another folder
"posts" and a file "content"
"content-none.php"
And let's type "child
none".
And now this is what will be loaded when there are no posts.
So finally one other place we can use get_template_part()
for is our footer. So you see our footer
has a lot of code.
Right?
And if a child theme developer needs to, you know, just override something very little here he'll have to copy
his whole file and create a footer.php in the child theme.
So let's create some template parts for different places here. So let's create a new folder inside the "template-parts"
for the footer.
And inside of it we'll need to create two templates for the widgets and for the site info.
So let's create two files.
"widgets.php" and "info.php".
And we'll just copy
the widgets part.
And save. And cut the info part.
in info.php.
Just make sure you have the footer background variable in this file. So let's define it
and as I told you these options will be dynamic later.
So this will not be a problem. And let's finally load them using
get_template_part()
"template-files".
Or "template-parts/footer/widgets" and we don't have a special template for this one. And let's
duplicate and just type "info".
And we still have everything in place but now it's more organized more easier for child theme developers to
override just the info part or the widget part without having to recreate the whole footer.
So I think that's it for Template Parts. Throughout the development
we'll try to use it as much as we can because it's a really useful feature.
Let's see you in the next lecture.